# Deep-Learning-Based-Accident-Detection-and-Severity-Assessment-with-IoT-Enabled-Emergency-Response
This project develops an intelligent accident detection system using deep learning and IoT. Leveraging real-time traffic feeds, it combines a classification model to identify accidents, YOLOv5 to locate the accident area, and a CNN to assess severity as minimal, moderate, or intense, enhancing precision and response.

# Abstract—This paper proposes an accident detection and clas- sification system using deep learning on IOT devices to tackle the prevalent problem of road accidents in developing an intelligent accident detection system and timely response mechanism. Some of the shortcomings of the current accident detection system include relying on manual reporting and eyewitnesses which may delay the detection and reporting of accidents. Even if there is automatic detection of the accident, it becomes difficult to distinguish between minor and major accidents without physi- cally inspecting the scene. Also, the present systems do not make efficient use of the available real time traffic camera feed, while the information acquisition depends on occasional signals from the sensors, phone, or through traffic reports. This restricts the effectiveness of accident identification in terms of speed and pre- cision.The input for our developed system is real-time feeds from traffic cameras. In this case, one gets various types of collisions ranging from minor to major using a trained deep learning model based on the patterns that the model is able to decipher from the video feeds input provided. When sensed, IoT devices positioned at the interior and outside of the building prompt an instant reaction and enable the establishing of interaction between the cordoned accident scene and other related stakeholders such as emergency services. The system quickly sends sensitive details for instance location of an accident, degree of the accident and parties affected thus enhancing the response. The combination of deep learning for accident detection and severity with IoT based emergency response is a major leap forward in the sphere of intelligent traffic management. The system’s objectives include an increase in road safety, optimization of the performance of emergency services, and minimising, and possibly preventing, the consequences of accidents to create a basis for safer cities.

# Index Terms—Deep Learning, Internet of Things (IoT), Ac- cident Detection, Emergency Response, Traffic Management, Urban Safety, Real-time Analysis, Computer Vision, Smart Cities, Road Safety


